WIM: Hello, everyone.
In this short video,
we're going to look
at some more basic
elements of Haskell
by examples from
other languages.
So we will look at
anonymous functions,
higher-order functions,
blocks, and conditions.
First, anonymous functions.
So these are functions
that don't have a name
and they occur in
many languages.
For example, in JavaScript.
So in JavaScript you can
write something like-- so
what we have here
is a variable f that
contains a complete function.
In Haskell, these
anonymous functions
are called lambda functions and
they're really very important.
They are actually the
foundation of the language.
So there is a very
compact syntax for that.
Again, in Haskell the same
example would look as follows.
And again, we will talk a lot
more about lambda functions
in the next class.
So another important element
in many programming languages
is the block structures that
you use to define functions.
For example, again
in JavaScript we
could define a function
that returns the roots
of a quadratic equation.
So-- we have a
function that takes
the coefficients of
the quadratic equation
and then we can compute the
roots in the familiar way.
So we have-- so we
have a function that
defines a block of code where
we find a number of variables.
So first we have the
square of the determinant.
Then we take the square root
to get to the determinant.
Then we compute the
root and the first root
of the quadratic equation
and the second root
and we return them
both in a list.
So, in Haskell, this same
code looks very similar.
And we will just define it by
removing some of this syntax.
So we have a function
of a, b, and c.
And the function is
actually defining a block
using a let construct.
So it says let and then
a number of variables
in the expression
of this return.
Because the whole
thing is an expression,
you don't need the
return statement.
Another very important construct
in any programming language
is a conditional construct.
So an if-then, or if-then-else.
For example, in Python we
might define a function
to compute the maximum of
two numbers as follows.
So the function max takes
two values, x and y,
and we do a comparison.
If x is greater
than y, we return x.
And otherwise, we return y.
So nothing special there.
Haskell has a very
similar if-then statement,
but again it's an
expression, not a statement.
So let's look at
what it looks like.
And again, we need less syntax
in Haskell than in Python.
So the last feature of Haskell
that I want to illustrate
is actually a little bit less
basic-- a little bit more
advanced-- it's called
higher-order functions.
These are functions that
operate on other functions,
or functions that take
functions as arguments.
And again, we can compare
this with other languages.
In this case, we
compare it with Perl.
So, in Perl you
could, for instance,
compute the double of a list
using the following code.
So what happens here is that we
have an anonymous function that
takes an argument
and doubles it,
and the map function makes
this anonymous function work
on the list from 1 to 10.
So again, in Haskell,
this is very similar.
Like that.
So we have a map, which
takes an anonymous function.
So we have map, which
takes an anonymous function
and works on the list,
and it will double
every element in the list.
So these higher-order
functions are a lot more used
in a functional
language like Haskell
than in an imperative
language, but, as you can see,
they do exist in other
languages as well.